---
title: "2026 Vikings Training Camp Preview: Running Backs & Fullback"
date: '2026-07-15'
---

*Karter Strahl-Most*

EAGAN, Minn. — Key returnees, interesting newcomers and repeated emphasis this offseason have advanced the idea of resurging the Vikings rushing attack in 2026.

Our preview series is getting to that part of the offense/roster today after opening Monday with quarterbacks and following Tuesday with primary passing targets (wide receivers and tight ends).

Running backs and fullbacks can certainly catch the ball, too, and have done so on numerous memorable instances over the years; they could add more this season, but Minnesota has invested considerable time on task with a few tweaks in the run game with help from new Assistant Head Coach Frank Smith.

The goal is to build on some solid progress made in 2025 when Minnesota's average of 4.5 per carry was a high through four seasons under Head Coach Kevin O'Connell. The Vikings also rushed for 15 scores, which equaled the team's total touchdowns on the ground from 2023-24. That dozen-plus total included four by QB J.J. McCarthy and a 65-yard sprint by receiver Jordan Addison.

Fans will have their first opportunity to see glimpses of the revamped running game on Aug. 1 during Back Together Weekend: Saturday Edition. Visit vikings.com/camp for information.

Here's the remaining schedule for this preview series.

Thursday, July 16: Offensive line

Monday, July 20: Defensive line

Tuesday, July 21: Inside & outside linebackers

Wednesday, July 22: Defensive backs

Thursday, July 23: Specialists

RUNNING BACKS AND FULLBACK

RETURNEES: RBs Aaron Jones, Sr., Jordan Mason and Zavier Scott

NEWCOMERS: RBs Demond Claiborne (2026 draft) and Kejon Owens (UDFA); FB Max Bredeson (2026 draft)

NOTABLE DEPARTURES: FB C.J. Ham (retired this spring); RB Ty Chandler

2025 RECAP: The Vikings returned Jones in 2025 for a second season in Purple and added Mason during free agency, envisioning a 1A/1B tandem that could even utilize both on the field at the same time.

Jones started all 12 games he played but missed five due to injuries. Mason started those contests and appeared in 16 games, leading Minnesota with 159 rushes for 758 yards and six scores (reminder that the 2023 Vikings scored seven rushing TDs, and the 2024 edition scored eight).

Jones had accounted for five of those scores in 2024 when he also rushed for a career-high 1,138 yards. Last season, he finished with roughly half as many carries (132 compared to 255) for 548 yards and two scores. His yards per rush dipped below 4.5 for the first time in his career and finished at 4.2.

Jones led Minnesota's running backs with 28 receptions for 199 yards, highlighted by his 27-yard score from McCarthy at Chicago in Week 1 to give the Vikings their first lead of the season. He also continued to show skills as a pass protector.

Elsewhere at the position, Scott logged his first NFL in-game reps. The former college receiver rushed 32 times for 114 yards and caught 14 passes for 98 on 16 targets. Scott had an impressive toe tap on a 16-yard pass from Carson Wentz in Dublin and drew a 5-yard penalty against Patrick Queen late in that game against the Steelers (he could have gained much more on the play without the smart usage of a penalty by Queen).

When one thought all the concrete had dried for Ham, he further cemented his legacy. The homegrown undrafted free agent rushed three times and scored on two of them, including his final carry as a Viking in Minnesota's Week 18 win over Green Bay.

Chandler was limited to just three games after powering through a knee injury to finish Week 1 with a savvy play on special teams. He finished with 17 rushes for 47 yards and three catches for 11. It was not what he or Minnesota pictured for the final year of his rookie deal, but Chandler signed with the Saints this offseason.

The Vikings also enlisted the services of Cam Akers after acquiring him for the third consecutive season (this time as a free agent after trading for him in 2023 and again in 2024). He retained his popularity with Vikings fans but was unable to pop as much in limited duty.

POSITION OVERVIEW: The Vikings were happy to work out a deal with Jones to have him return for a third season. The completeness in his game, his sportsmanship (he was nominated for the Art Rooney award in 2024), commitment to the community (Minnesota's Salute to Service Award winner the past two seasons), willingness and ability to be a mentor, and desire to remain here are all factors for why Minnesota hoped to return the RB for his 10th pro season.

As much as the Vikings like Jones, a runway also existed for Mason to come into his own and emerge from his time in a crowded backfield with the 49ers. He was credited with breaking 13 tackles and racked up 385 yards after contact, which was 50.8 percent of his rushing yardage total. For comparison's sake, Jones was credited with breaking five tackles and totaled 234 yards after contact.

Ideally, the health of the 2026 offensive line will be vastly improved over 2025 when Minnesota used 26 combinations of players across five positions. That group could help set the tone for running backs and give Jones some space to get his wheels turning and Mason more of an opportunity to pick up steam.

Scott's demeanor is such that he's going to reach for his best every single day while continuing to develop his game. He blends well with the group, and his receiving chops — as well as opportunities on special teams — could be quite helpful.

The Vikings also added to their backfield during the draft, first tabbing Bredeson (the draft's top-rated fullback) at 159 overall and Claiborne at 198.

Those moves could amount to a smash-and-dash grab on Day 3 of the 2026 NFL Draft.

Pads obviously weren't on during the offseason program, but Bredeson moved around the formation and navigated to the points of attack with confidence.

Claiborne's speed — he ran the 40 in 4.37 seconds — has been the most conspicuously absent trait in the Vikings backfield the past couple of years. It is something that excites coaches, and he's enthused about learning everything he can from the likes of Jones and Mason.

We'd be remiss if we didn't at least mention the productivity of Owens, who set a Florida International record with 1,334 rushing yards in 2025 and led the team with 11 rushing TDs (third most in a season by a Panther).

WHAT TO WATCH IF YOU MAKE IT TO CAMP: (Players): There are a few things worth your time. Aside from soaking up what Jones routinely has done to fuel his impressive career, look for Mason's increased comfort in his second season in the system. Claiborne's speed and ease of opening things up is something likely to surface. (Scheme tweaks): The Vikings might be tracking a little wider on zone runs than they have in previous seasons under O'Connell, who implemented quite a bit of mid zone upon his arrival in 2022. (Mentality): This involves all 11 on offense, but the emphasis on the run game this offseason could foreshadow an intensified purpose in running the football. Days with pads ought to be interesting

3 KEY QUESTIONS FOR THE VIKINGS RUSHING ATTACK

 How will the Vikings share carries?

That's probably the starting question for any fantasy football manager with Jones and/or Mason on their rosters. It remains to be seen if there will be any alterations, but the Vikings do still believe they have two players capable of being productive starters in Jones and Mason, despite the uniqueness of their skill sets.

Minnesota could try to structure things in a way to get both backs in rhythm but manage load usage in a couple of ways, and the coaches could implement either to take advantage of what each does best, depending on game situations (time and the football's location on the field) or broader game plans developed to attack particular opponents.

Can Bredeson contribute immediately?

O'Connell arrived having limited experience with a fullback, but Ham's dependability and versatility (he added pass pro services on third downs to go along with other fullback duties) led to increased opportunities on offense over the past four seasons.

It's admittedly hard to imagine the Vikings without Ham, but the team envisions Bredeson taking the baton in stride. Teammates, including McCarthy who attended his former Michigan teammate's draft party, and coaches mentioned Bredeson making an impressive initial impression with the group. He seems cut from similar cloth as Ham when it comes to a steadfast commitment to doing things the right way.

What does Claiborne's explosiveness add?

The prospect of explosive plays on the ground is highly welcome after Minnesota recorded just seven runs of 20+ yards in 2025 and only one of 40+. Only six teams had fewer 20-yard rushes in that span. Twenty teams had two or more of 40+, with Detroit carding a league best seven.

Boosting that threat could force defenses to be a little more honest in their coverage of Minnesota's pass catchers. Being able to "ring the bell," as O'Connell likes to say, from 20-plus yards can be felt throughout the sideline.

If the Vikings roll with Kyler Murray at QB, his fleet feet and success as a runner could further compound explosive threats.



*See the Vikings 2026 Schedule.

View future opponents for the Vikings.

Buy single game tickets.

Download the official Vikings App.

See more about the 2028 NFL Draft in Minnesota.*