---
title: "2026 Vikings Training Camp Preview: Wide Receivers & Tight Ends"
date: '2026-07-14'
---

*Karter Strahl-Most*

o gear up for the fun, which fans can begin indulging in Aug. 1 on Back Together Weekend: Saturday Edition, Vikings.com is using the runway before camp to reintroduce the team's position groups. On Monday, we previewed the quarterbacks room. Here's the remainder of the schedule through July 23.

Tuesday, July 14: Wide receivers & tight ends

Wednesday, July 15: Running backs

Thursday, July 16: Offensive line

Monday, July 20: Defensive line

Tuesday, July 21: Inside & outside linebackers

Wednesday, July 22: Defensive backs

Thursday, July 23: Specialists

No one is entwined to the quarterback quite like a receiver (or tight end), so concentrating on the Vikings primary pass catchers is an organic second step in this series. Minnesota has a host of fabulous ones, but several of them with a history of making defenses pay weren't their usual selves last season — drops, incongruencies at quarterback (three starters) and wayward momentum were negative impacts. To regain their bravado, Vikings pass catchers must hone compatibility with the to-be-named starting QB.

WIDE RECEIVERS

RETURNEES: Justin Jefferson and Jordan Addison; Reserves Tai Felton, Dontae Fleming, Jeshaun Jones and Myles Price

NEWCOMERS: Veteran Jauan Jennings; undrafted rookies Dillon Bell, Michael Briscoe, Terrill Davis, Trayvon Rudolph, Marcus Sanders, Jr., and Luke Wysong

NOTABLE DEPARTURES: Jalen Nailor (free agency); Adam Thielen (waived at his request last December)

2025 RECAP: Let's work chronologically, and with haste. Jefferson did more mentoring than playing during camp last year due to a hamstring strain. Addison and J.J. McCarthy were in perfect harmony — but the league suspended Addison for three games due to a 2024 incident — and Nailor showed up looking stronger, and as "Speedy" as ever. When Nailor injured his hand toward the end of camp, the team executed a trade with Carolina that returned Thielen, a rightful icon; he had eight catches in 11 games during his second stint with his hometown team and later signed with playoff-bound Pittsburgh.

Jefferson shouldered responsibility for running an inadequate route in Week 1 that resulted in a McCarthy pick six. The phenom didn't log his first 100-yard game until going overseas in Week 4, with Carson Wentz at quarterback. He had another on the second leg of the double-dip across the pond but didn't produce his first stateside century party until the season finale. Despite finishing eight contests with fewer than 50 receiving yards, Jefferson broke the 1,000-yard barrier for the sixth consecutive year. His 84 catches, 1,048 yards, 12.5 average per reception and two scores, however, represented single-season lows over a full campaign. When Jefferson was targeted, his QBs had a flailing 57.9 passer rating.

Addison built off his strong camp after his suspension, grabbing 18 balls for 283 yards across his first three games, but he totaled only 327 over 11 the rest of the way and went catch-less on two occasions. Additionally, Addison dropped six passes, which was totally uncharacteristic of him — and amounted to more drops than Years 1 and 2 combined (5). His four total TDs were a far cry from his 20 from 2023-24.

Nailor continued his 2024 breakout in 2025 with single-season highs for catches (29), yards (444) and average gain (15.3), but his involvement vanished for weeks at a time, akin to every other playmaker on the roster, with some uneven quarterback play a factor. The Raiders rewarded Nailor with a sweet payday this spring after he stayed healthy for two years and evolved into a reliable man-coverage beater.

The receivers room outside of that trio had a razor-thin impact on offense but did wonders in the third phase — Felton developed as a difficult-to-impede gunner on the punting unit, and Price debuted as a classy return specialist, annihilating the franchise record for kick and punt return yardage in one season.

POSITION OVERVIEW: Jefferson, aka "Jets," is recalibrating after a down year by his All-Universe standards, but don't get it twisted: he's a supremely gifted route-runner and competitor. Addison, similarly, failed to strut his best stuff a year ago, but he's extremely smooth, too, and one of the top deep-ball trackers in the NFL. Is there a greater tandem? Eh. But there's not a better trio. Definitively.

Jefferson, Addison and Jennings, who earned a reputation for being gritty (not to be confused with Jefferson's trademark celebration) in San Francisco and who owns the league's 10th most receiving touchdowns dating to 2024 (15), form arguably the most dynamic gauntlet of Vikings receivers since the "Three Deep" era that rolled out Cris Carter, Randy Moss and Jake Reed. This new triumvirate has everything that a receivers room wants: speed, grace, toughness, run-after-the-catch and innate aplomb.

The depth behind them is inexperienced but interesting. Felton is the only other WR on the roster with a catch to his name (he has three). Price and Bell flashed, frequently, during the offseason program, and Jones and Fleming have prior development on the practice squad. Although on the smaller side (listed at 5-foot-10 and 186), Wysong boasts elite athleticism that has been effective in the slot for some offenses.

MILESTONE TRACKER: Jefferson needs 1,008 yards to overtake Torry Holt for the most ever through a player's first seven seasons. If Jefferson obtains 837, he will scoot past Moss and into second place in the Vikings record books, and he'll do the same for receptions with just nine more. Broken records: pending.

WHAT TO WATCH IF YOU MAKE IT TO CAMP: The rapport between Minnesota's competing quarterbacks, McCarthy and Kyler Murray, and its three-headed receiving monster is obviously a must see. Although Jefferson and Addison have familiarity with the former, there's urgency for everyone to create and enhance their chemistry. Teammates so far have complimented Jennings' skill and play style.

TIGHT ENDS

RETURNEES: T.J. Hockenson, Josh Oliver, Gavin Bartholomew, Ben Yurosek and Bryson Nesbit

NEWCOMER: Marshall Lang

2025 RECAP: Keeping the theme, Vikings tight ends had diminished returns due to a shaky offense overall. Hockenson mustered four catches on seven targets for 27 yards over McCarthy's initial two starts. The two-time Pro Bowler was peppered with chances over the next four games, though, with Wentz going his way 26 times, resulting in 21 receptions for 169 yards. Hockenson's touchdown last Sept. 21 was his first in the regular season since Nov. 27, 2023. He tallied two more scores in the campaign, but his production never really stabilized due to the QB musical chairs and a blood-thirsty injury bug that ravaged the offensive line. The latter reality forced the coaching staff to limit Hock's routes in favor of staying tight to the formation and chipping world-class edge rushers as they beamed into the backfield.

Hockenson's final numbers – 51 catches for 438 yards (8.6 avg.) – were significantly greater than Oliver's receiving line (15-160), save for the latter's career-high four TDs. Oliver had two in the Week 14 shutout win vs. Washington. Ex-Viking Ben Sims (3-30) and Yurosek (2-14) made bite-sized contributions, as well.

POSITION OVERVIEW: Hockenson and Oliver, both 29, have an established presence. The former for years has deftly found soft spots in zone defenses and acted as a security blanket for passing attacks. Oliver has hands that will swallow you and is viewed widely as one of the best run-blocking tight ends in the NFL. They're joined by Bartholomew, a sixth-round draft pick who missed his entire rookie year due to a back injury suffered during the 2025 offseason program, and Yurosek, whom the Vikings were super high on after the 2025 event. Nesbit, another UDFA signing, spent 2025 on the practice squad, and Lang, a Northwestern product, joins the bunch for camp after being added at the end of the offseason program; he spent time last season with the Seahawks and new Vikings General Manager Nolan Teasley.

COACHING CHANGE: Head Coach Kevin O'Connell promoted Ryan Cordell to Tight Ends Coach/Game Management Coordinator after one of his right hands, Brian Angelichio, accepted an elevated role with Pittsburgh as the Steelers offensive coordinator. Cordell isn't new to Minnesota or the offense, having served as a passing game specialist in prior seasons, along with spearheading the club's situational mastery, but he does get an expanded opportunity now to run a room that he previously assisted. At the 2026 Senior Bowl, Cordell shared he prides himself on caring for his players and telling them hard truths.

WHAT TO WATCH IF YOU MAKE IT TO CAMP: Once you get over how large a human Oliver is (this writer is approaching his third training camp with the team and hasn't ceased to be amazed), we recommend darting your eyes to Bartholomew, who probably has the most to prove at his position. As a prospect, Bartholomew was lauded by NFL.com’s Lance Zierlein for his aggressive blocking and rugged instincts with the rock. He's likely battling lost time for a roster spot after Yurosek made the '25 squad as a UDFA.

3 KEY QUESTIONS FOR VIKINGS PASS CATCHERS

 Can Justin Jefferson return to rare form?

Anyone else get scolded in elementary school for asking, "Can I use the restroom?" Back then, the teacher's response was infuriating. But in hindsight … constructive. Of course, I can use the restroom – and asking can Jefferson return to rare form is equally silly because of freaking course he can. He's 27. He's obsessed with his craft. He's hungry to win — hates to lose — and the cast around him is ready to.

So, the right question is Will Justin Jefferson return to rare form? Let's answer that question with a question: Will the sun rise in the East tomorrow? History hasn't given us a reason yet to believe it won't. Jefferson is one of three players (Moss and Mike Evans) to notch six 1,000-yard seasons in a row from the onset of their careers; he's one of two receivers this century to be a Top 5 vote-getter on the MVP ballot (Cooper Kupp in 2021); and early last year, he tied Larry Fitzgerald as the youngest player to achieve 500 catches. Jefferson's periodical struggles in 2025 were the outlier of a truly unprecedented career takeoff.

How will Jauan Jennings factor into the mix?

Firstly, Minnesota respected Nailor and the roles he selflessly accepted on his plate in a top-heavy receivers room. The 2022 sixth-round pick navigated injuries his first couple of seasons and blossomed into Minnesota's "Next Man Up" role. He delivered some great moments in key places – namely, as a red-zone threat and a willing blocker (his most famous effort transpired on Jefferson's 97-yard catch-and-run in Week 2 in 2024 against San Francisco) — and he did his plethora of jobs with a quiet confidence.

Jennings possesses the same kind of grindsmanship, but he'll let you — and everyone — know about it. That's one part of his game that figures to be apparent from the jump based on his rollicking knack for playing through the whistle and frustrating opponents. Jennings has fantastic size at 6-foot-3 and 212 pounds, as well as above-average ball skills — contested catches are one of his things — and lull-you-to-sleep speed, but his competitive toughness is a differentiator; he can cause problems wherever he aligns.

We dissected different layers of Jennings' game over the past couple of seasons in this film breakdown.

Which young players will contribute to the offense?

Taking the offseason program into consideration, a few candidates already have stood out on the grass.

Among the spritely newcomers, Bell easily was the busiest.

The former Georgia Bulldog looked big, fast and sure of himself. He showcased a feel for the sidelines, making catches behind sinking cornerbacks and underneath over-the-top safeties; he exhibited a nice burst on short passes and a bravery going over the middle of the field that quarterbacks will appreciate (the offense won't face hits from defenders until the preseason games); and he took turns fielding the ball in the special teams sector. Bell looks like he has a pro-ready — and extremely versatile — skill set.

Now, with the competition heating up and the stakes increasing, Bell and others must prove they do.



*See the Vikings 2026 Schedule.

View future opponents for the Vikings.

Buy single game tickets.

Download the official Vikings App.

See more about the 2028 NFL Draft in Minnesota.*